>> Jafar Husain: So let's retrieve
the URL of the largest box art.
Okay, so now, this is an interesting one
because notice that reduce is gonna have,
it's kind of a challenging one
because sometimes when you're using
your accumulated value, right.
Needs to be, sometimes the result you want
is not the same as the accumulated value
you'd use for reduce.
Let me show you an example.
So I've got to compare box
arts to each other, right.
And I want to come up with
the URL of the largest one.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just
going to call reduce without an,
I'm gonna my arrow function here.
So we're in a function that takes
accumulated and current, and
if the accumulated width times accumulated
height,
>> Jafar Husain: Is
larger than current width
times current height.
Actually I think we can shorten
this into the same ternary
expression that we used last time.
We return accumulated versus current.
So it's almost exactly
the same as last time, right.
We just compare the current
box art with the last box art,
and if the current one is is larger,
we return the current one,
if the if the one we've accumulated
thus far as large we return that one.
I'm gonna close this reduce off,
but I'm not done yet.
I've picked the largest box art but
remember that the goal was to actually
return the URL of the largest box art.
So in this case, I'm expecting,
because I think 425 by 150 is the largest,
I'm not sure actually.
I think I'm expecting to just get this.
Anybody want to tell me what operator I
would also have to chain off of reduce to
just grab that one property?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] to map it?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, I'd have to map it.
Now I've got an array containing
just one box art, and
what I want is an array containing
just the URL of that box art.
So we're substituting
the box art object for
just the URL inside.
>> Jafar Husain: I
think that's right.
>> Jafar Husain: Where's
my semicolon here?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, that worked.
So that's reduce.
Now let's try reducing
with an initial value.
One of the challenging things about reduce
is that sometimes, the types of the object
in the collection is not the same type as
the object we want to come out of reduce.
So the result of reduce will
usually be the same type
as whatever the accumulated value is.
So if you allow the accumulated value
to just be the first item in the array,
well then you know the type that
comes out of reduce gonna be the same
type as what's inside of the array.
However, sometimes you don't want that.
Sometimes if you provide your own
accumulated values as a starting point,
that last optional argument,
then you would expect the result to
come out of reduce to always be
the type of that accumulated argument.
That's not always true in JavaScript
cuz there's no types and, but
generally speaking that's true.
So here I have an array of videos.
But what I'm trying to get is a,
we want, interesting.
We're trying to create a map so
we have an array of IDs and titles.
And we want to create is a map
where the ID is the key and the,
let me see, the value is the title.
So let's show you what I mean here,
there's an example down here I believe.
There isn't, that's a shame.
Here we go.
So I would expect an array
containing only one result,
where we have a map of all the video ids,
and their titles.
Whereas now we have an array of ids and
titles, we want to get this.
So we're taking all these objects and
aggregating them up into one big map,
right?
But notice that what comes out at
the end isn't an object that looks like
ID and title.
It's a different type,
it's this map with all that stuff.
And so what I'm gonna do is I'm
wanna give it an accumulator value
that's an empty map.
Because what I wanna do is I
wanna take all these titles,
I wanna suck their data out and I wanna
jam it in to this accumulated map, so
that in the end all and left with is that
accumulated map with all the data inside.
So let's try this.
So I'm gonna use my accumulated map and
notice here down here in passing
an empty map as my accumulated values.
That's what I want to use as my
accumulated value, every single time a new
video comes in, I'm just gonna pull
the ID and title and stick it in there.
Now, here is one definition
that would work actually.
But I'm not gonna do it, which is
accumulatedMap[video.id] = video.title.
If we did this,
it would work.
>> Jafar Husain: We
of course have to return
the accumulatedMap.
Does everybody see why that's gonna work?
So we pass in an empty map and for
every single item,
>> Jafar Husain: So
current is going to be this item,
right down here.
So the video is gonna be
this item right up here.
>> Jafar Husain: First, and
then it's gonna be passed
into the accumulatedMap.
And now we're just gonna use this,
we're just gonna add the data
inside of this video, id and title,
to the accumulatedMap and return it.
So the next time around, the same
map will be the accumulatedMap and
we'll just have a different video.
So now it will be this one.
So we suck the ID and title out,
add it to the accumulatedMap,
return that accumulatedMap, and once
again, we just keep going like that until
finally we've exhausted everything and
we return the accumulatedMap.
Now that will work in JavaScript and
I don't want us to do it.
I don't want us to do it for
one simple reason.
Inside of all of our functions that we
pass to these operators, map, filter,
reduce, here's what I want you guys to do,
never ever change a value.
Inside of map, your map function,
inside of your filter function,
your projection function,
your predicate functions,
I never ever want you to
change a variable, ever.
And what we're doing here is we've
got this accumulated map and
we're changing it.
We're actually changing what it is
by sticking some properties onto it,
does that make sense?
What I mean when I say change it,
I can do this without ever
changing the accumulatedMap.
I can do it without changing it all.
Here is how I'm gonna do it.
Well, here's one way of doing it.
Which is, I could actually clone the map.
Not so efficiently, but this would work.
Does everybody know why this
would create a clone of the map?
I'm turning this map, I'm serializing into
a string, that's adjacent string, and then
I'm parsing that string, so I've actually
created a complete copy of that map.
So if I did this,
>> Jafar Husain: I would
accomplish what I'm trying to accomplish
was I'm trying to avoid changing values.
So in this case I'm creating a brand new
value, and I'll set a property on that.
That's okay, as long as I'm not,
the point is I don't wanna change
a value that's passed in to me.
Cuz let's say I have a value, and
I call a function I pass that value in,
and somebody else mucks with it,
they change it.
That's actually kind of complicated,
because I never know whether somebody's
gonna muck with my value or not.
Ideally they would create a copy, and so I
would be able to hold on to my object and
they would be able to do whatever
computation they needed to do.
So this concept of mutation,
of changing an object once you have it,
actually creates a lot of
complexity in an application.
And notice that all the functions I've
been showing you up to this point,
they don't change arrays, right?
Maps doesn't change an array.
Filter doesn't change an array.
Map creates a new array, right?
Filter creates a new array.
All of the expressions that we've been
writing thus far never change anything.
They just create new data from old data,
and
that turns out to be a really
wonderful property in a program.
So without explaining necessarily why,
what I'd like you to do is avoid changing
any variables that you don't own and
you haven't introduced yourself
inside of these functions.
And the way that you can do that,
JavaScript has actually got a neat trick,
which allows you to do this without this,
which is much more expensive.
It's actually a cheap way
of cloning an object.
Who here is familiar with prototypal
inheritance in JavaScript?
So we have a few people.
In JavaScript, we have this notion
of prototypal inheritance, and
what that means is, if I have a, actually,
I'll show it in a console.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's say I create a person.
>> Speaker 3: Just for reference,
our advanced JavaScript course really
covers this in very specific detail.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, so
I'll be very brief,
I'll just show the concept.
So I've created a person and now let's
say I want to create a person object that
has all the same another object that
has all the same stuff inside a person.
But I also want to add some stuff to it,
so
I don't want to change the person object.
I wanna create a whole new object that has
all the same stuff inside a person but
extra properties as well.
So I'm going to create-
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] console
process.
>> Jafar Husain: Absolutely.
>> Jafar Husain: This is a little bit odd,
but what this does is it
doesn't create a clone of,
this is not good.
>> Speaker 4: Can you escape?
>> Jafar Husain: Good, good call.
It doesn't create a clone of person,
but if, notice that if what
happens if I look up,
>> Jafar Husain: The name,
it looks like it creates a clone.
It looks like it's
actually created a copy,
because it's got the same name property.
But what's actually happening is
that every object in JavaScript
has what's called a prototype.
So it actually has a pointer to another
object which it's using as its prototype.
So another way of saying that is
every object in JavaScript
is like a linked list.
So another person is actually just an
empty object and I can prove that to you.
>> Jafar Husain: It's empty.
It's actually got no properties in it.
So it's got no properties in it.
How does this work?
>> Jafar Husain: Well the way it works,
is that another person actually
has a pointer to person.
And if you attempt to look up a key on
another person and that key is not found,
it follows the link to the next object.
And then it finds it on person and
it stops there.
Does that make sense?
So we've created a linked list of objects.
Every JavaScript is in fact a linked list
of objects, and if you attempt to look up
a property on them, and it's not there,
it'll keep following the chain up.
And so, in essence,
it's actually a cheap way, in some ways,
to think about it as copying an object.
Because, instead of just going
through all the properties and
then copying them into another object,
what you've actually just done is you
just created a new object with
a little pointer to the old one.
And so
I can use that technique here to avoid
ever changing the accumulated map and
instead,
>> Jafar Husain: Make
a very cheap quote unquote copy of
it.
>> Jafar Husain: So
what I've done here is I've made a whole
new object, in fact, I'll even name it
differently so it's clear.
>> Jafar Husain: And
since I created this object I
can muck with it all I want.
The whole point is to avoid
changing somebody else's objects.
So if an object gets passed into
a function, you shouldn't muck with it.
Not in a map or a filter or
reduce function.
You shouldn't muck with
other people's objects, but
here I've created the object myself,
right.
And so I can set this one property
here and return it, and it works.
So what we keep doing is we're actually
creating new little maps that hold onto
all the old maps which
are also still there.
Now, ad we have never changed any of them,
right?
And the end result is the same,
that we have a a single
map,
>> Jafar Husain: I'm not sure where
the problem is but,
>> Speaker 4: It is pretty
interesting looking a little [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar Husain: Hm?
>> Speaker 4: I got nothing.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, so we're just,
you know,
it's a cheap way of copying an object.
Instead of actually copying the object,
we create another another empty object and
create a little pointer to the old object.
And then every time you try to look up
something on the new object, if it can't
find it, it walks the line until it can
find an object with that property, yeah.
>> Speaker 5: So if you create,
an object.create and
let's say you changed the original copy.
>> Jafar Husain: Then it'll muck
with a new, then it'll make the new
copy look like it's changed.
Right, so we can actually try that right
here because, remember it's not really,
it hasn't copied the data, it's actually
just holding on to the old data.
I think that's actually a good example so
we should check that out.
>> Speaker 5: So
you could still have issues
doing it this way too then?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, you could.
Somebody could muck with the original
object and then you'd be in a bad place.
I still have that open?
>> Jafar Husain: The goal here is,
JavaScript can't make sure that
nobody mucks with an object.
Well, that's not entirely true.
You can call object.seal, which is a way
of actually locking down an object
to avoid anybody making any copies to it.
And so every now and
then that's actually a nice thing to do.
If you want to make sure that
nobody mucks with your object,
you can call object.seal on it, and
then nobody else can muck with it.
But some languages can actually statically
verify that nobody can change your objects
and that's kind of nice.
So in JavaScript we're just sort of
relying on the honor system here,
in this type of programming.
So who's familiar with the term
functional programming?
Quite a few people, right.
The idea behind functional
programming is very much this,
you'll always take data in and
create new data.
You don't change anybody else's data,
and that turns
out to actually be a very simple and
powerful way of building a program.
And up till now it's pretty much
all we've been doing, right?
We've taken arrays, creating new arrays.
We've never changed anything except
in our implementation of map and
our implementation of filter, where we've
created a new array that we own, and
modify that right.
That's okay.
Creating your own objects and
modifying them is fine.
But if you think about it up till now
we've never ever taken somebody else's
object and changed it.
And I want you to continue
doing that as we go over time.
Think that way inside of your map and
your filter function, it's a smell.
If you're having to change
an object that was passed into you.
That make sense?